You know, a very simple way
to visualize Romans 12:2
is to use a rock and clay.
Now, we want to be like a rock
in Satan’s hands—resisting his molding.
But we want to be like clay
in Jehovah’s hands.
Now, being like a rock in Satan’s hand
really represents
the first part of Romans 12:2
that says: “Stop being molded
by this system of things.”
And being clay in Jehovah’s hands
is very similar to the thought
in the rest of Romans 12:2 that says
“Be transformed by making your mind over.”
Now, to illustrate the difference
between our reaction when Satan tries
to shape and mold us
with this system of things
versus when Jehovah wants to.
I’d like you to think that
maybe, you’re in a public place
—you’re at a shopping mall or someplace—
and a perfect stranger walks up behind you
and starts to massage your shoulders.
What would you do?
You would stiffen up and say:
“Get away! What are you doing?”
But if someone you love and trust does that,
well, you might relax
and have a very different reaction, right?
So, what is our reaction when Satan
wants to try to shape and mold us?
It’s being like a rock.
But when Jehovah wants
to shape and mold us,
we want to be like clay.
Now, let’s consider one rocklike quality
that we need to resist
Satan’s shaping and molding of us.
And that’s courage.
To start that discussion on courage,
let’s open our Bibles
to a very straightforward,
simple statement at Psalm 56:3.
Psalm 56:3 says:
“When I am afraid, I put my trust in you.”
So Satan uses fear
and intimidation and persecution
to get us to change
our relationship with Jehovah,
to try to break our integrity,
to stop us from worshipping Jehovah.
Now, when you read the accounts in JW News
about our brothers in Russia,
I’m sure all of us have some reactions,
where you’re thinking,
‘Wow! How would I deal
with that kind of persecution?’
Or if you’re a wife, maybe you think,
‘Now, how would I deal
with my husband being put into prison
and having these kinds
of things done to him?’
Yes, in many ways, we are very proud
of the courage, the rocklike qualities,
that our brothers are showing
when Satan tries to shape and mold them.
I was particularly moved
when I read the account
about the brothers and sisters
in Russia in Orenburg.
And here a group of brothers
and sisters boldly went to the prison,
identified themselves as Jehovah’s Witnesses
(at some risk of their own freedom),
and wanted to know how their brothers
were being treated in the prison.
Aren’t we really, truly proud of those kinds
of rocklike qualities
that we see in our brothers and sisters?
But, now, it also takes courage
to resist other kinds of ways
that Satan is trying to mold and shape us.
It takes courage, for example,
to change the channel
or to click the mouse away
from bad entertainment.
Are we rocklike in that kind of courage?
It takes courage
to face sickness or a terminal illness
and have the rocklike hope and strength
that there is going to be a resurrection.
It takes courage to watch the news these days
and see all that is going on in the world
and keep our rocklike courage and faith
that there is a new world coming
and that the end of this system is coming.
So the lesson for us is this:
Are we like a rock in Satan’s hands?
Or is it possible that we have become
soft and comfortable
in this system of things?
Now, how are we doing
about being clay in Jehovah’s hands?
Isaiah 64:8
helps us
with this discussion about the clay
because it shows the choice
that we’ve made—Isaiah 64:8.
It says: “But now, O Jehovah,
you are our Father.
“We are the clay, and you are our Potter;
we are all the work of your hand.”
Now, sometimes when I’ve heard this read,
sometimes people say,
“We are the clay, and you are the Potter.”
But, really, that word “our”
is very important.
“We are the clay, and you are our  Potter.”
That means that we’ve made a choice
—that Jehovah is the one
to shape and mold us.
Now, imagine clay that you go
to shape and mold it, and it says:
“Ow! Hey, don’t do that!
Hey, I don’t want to look like that.
Don’t change me like that.”
“OK, OK, OK.”
What kind of reaction are we having
when Jehovah is trying to shape and mold us?
Well, let’s consider two claylike qualities
that we can have when Jehovah
is trying to shape and mold us.
First of all, obedience.
Now, it’s clear to all of us that Jehovah
is shaping and molding and preparing us
for the end of this system of things
and the events that are leading
directly up to the great tribulation.
So will we be obedient when we get direction
—how to preach, how to do our meetings,
what assignment we may have
during that turbulent time?
You know, yesterday Brother Splane
made some excellent comments
about King Solomon.
Now, King Solomon
had some divine instruction,
but he ignored it, and he basically said,
‘Well, you know,
I can marry lots of foreign wives,
and it’s not going to have any effect on me.’
We don’t want to have that kind of attitude
when it comes to divine instruction.
Or we could be like an athlete
who hires a coach,
pays him lots of money, and says,
“What can I do to be better?”
And the athlete says: “Well, you know,
I’m the professional athlete.
I really don’t need to listen
to what you have to say.”
So Jehovah is giving us counsel and advice.
We want to listen.
For example, this virus
that is spreading around
is giving us an opportunity
to see about being obedient.
We have many rules or guidelines
that are being set for us.
We may be quarantined.
We may have trips and other things canceled.
We may be told to wash our hands
or to not shake hands, but elbow bump.
Now, of course, we can try hard
to be obedient to those rules and guidelines,
but we also have an opportunity
to not just be obedient
to rules and guidelines
but be obedient
to the principles behind them.
And in this case,
often the principle is love of neighbor.
We’re trying to look out for others
with these rules and guidelines
when it comes to the virus.
And, really, when you think about it,
any of the opportunities we have now
are a time to practice being obedient.
Really, view it as training for us.
We have an opportunity
to practice being obedient for the future.
It’s at times like these
that we can set a pattern of obedience,
because with time and effort and practice,
we can make obedience our first reaction
rather than a second reaction.
Well, what’s another claylike quality
that we could have?
It’s spiritual focus.
Today, Jehovah is making it perfectly clear
that we’re living in the last days.
Now, the people of Noah’s time,
“they took no note”
of the time they were living in.
They didn’t have that claylike quality,
and they were swept away.
I saw a video recently
of an athlete doing a track meet.
They were running a race around the track,
and when this one athlete
crossed the finish line,
he threw his hands up and he was
absolutely jubilant that he had won the race.
But then he didn’t see anybody
cheering for him,
and the rest of the runners were running.
He was too early.
There was one more lap to go.
Well, he lost track of where he was.
He didn’t know that that wasn’t the last lap.
Well, we don’t want to lose track
of where we are in the race for life,
being so busy with doing other things.
Let the fact that we’re living
in the last of the last days
influence our day-to-day decisions.
Become claylike, moldable
—we’re living in the last days.
Pay attention to the Bible principles
that are mentioned to us
in The Watchtower  and our meetings
and have good spiritual conversations.
And those conversations can help to remind us
of the time in which we’re living.
So the lesson for us is this:
You have chosen Jehovah to be your Potter.
So be good, obedient,
spiritually-focused clay in his hands.
Yes, we need to be
like a rock in Satan’s hands,
and we need to be
like clay in Jehovah’s hands.